>> Scott Moss: Cool,
let's hop right into the next thing.
>> Scott Moss: MongoDB and data
persistence, who here has used MongoDB?
Dang, okay, well, let's just skip this
one and go to the next, okay, I'm sorry.
If everybody used Mongo then
this one shouldn't be so bad.
I guess the learnings you
might receive here is like,
how to best use it with Express and
where to use it.
And maybe any opinions
that I might have on it.
But if anybody here has used it,
people don't mind if you use it,
then you should get
a little bit from this.
So MongoDB is a No-SQL document store
to store our application's data,
what does that mean?
It's just a database that doesn't have,
it's a non relational database
that is not SQL, basically.
It's meant to just store JSON,
just store JSON in it.
It'll create collections for
those JSON stores, and
then you can query them with
actually pretty good query language.
I think that's the really good thing
about Mongo is that the query language is
really good.
It's based off JavaScript, it's pretty
simple, very flexible, easy to store data,
easy to query.
And it is schemaless,
MongoDB is schemaless.
Now, Mongoose, the ODM or the ORM
document, the object document model or
the object relational map.
Or whatever you want to call it,
is the go-to ODM for MongoDB.
There's some other ones out there,
but Mongoose is the champion.
If you go to the MongoDB websites,
they'll tell you to use Mongoose,
everywhere is basically
saying use Mongoose.
And Mongoose is actually pretty good,
it's inspired other ODMs,
ORMs to adopt their query language.
It's one of the most
flexible query ODMs or
ORMs that I've seen pretty much for
a while.
It does provide schemas for saving data.
Even though Mongo doesn't have schemas,
when you use Mongoose,
you do have schemas,
so that's really cool.
It has things like validations,
things you would expect from schemas.
This needs to be required, this has
a min length, this must be this type,
it has those validations built in,
which is really cool.
The Querying API is an abstraction
over the MongoDB Querying API, so
it's even better.
It's promise based,
you can do some pretty advanced stuff.
And then you can also drill down and
do native Mongo driver things as well.
Lifecycle hooks, so like on save,
on update, after update, pre save,
all that stuff, you can do
different things, it's really cool.
And then, one of the best features I
think is the run time join tables,
which are populations,
anybody know what populations are?
Okay, so
who here has used a relational database?
All right, so
you know what join tables are, right?
You have a join table, right, using
relations, Mongo doesn't have join tables.
Mongoose doesn't have join tables,
but they emulate it,
they do something called populations.
So basically, let's say I have
a person and I want to associate
this person with some friends,
which are other people, right?
You wouldn't make a join table for that
like you would in a relational database.
Instead, what you would do is you would
just store a reference to it with an ID.
Very similar to a relational database,
you'd have your key ID or whatever.
You would store a reference and say,
hey, this user has a list of friends and
here are their user IDs.
It's just an array of user IDs, right?
And then when you query that user, and
you want to get that user's friends,
by default,
you usually get back an array of IDs.
You're like, cool, cool story,
what do I do with this?
And I've got to loop through this
array and get all the friends, right?
Well, populate, what it does is
it does that for you at runtime.
Sort of like, cool, I'm going to take
this array of user IDs, and for each one,
I'm going to go populate
it with an actual user.
So it's going to join it at runtime for
you, so
it's like a runtime emulated join table.
It's not saved that way,
it's given to you that way.
It's like a virtual join table, if you
will, so it's really cool, very powerful.
You can join per property, sub properties,
I think it's really flexible and
yeah, without it, Mongo and
Mongoose would be pretty garbage.